Professor Wold responded and reminded me of something simple I think both Phil and I overlooked. This is even repeated in the last note below, which I note only as it confirms the pattern.

The analysis at the heart of this discussion concerns the comparison of two groups, male and female authors submitting papers to the peer-review system of the Swedish Medical Research Council (MRC). The comparison is made in terms of scientific productivity, which combines six different dimensions into a single index, and the MRC competence received upon paper review. Dimensions include the "total impact measure" which is based on a combination of impact factor (with impact factor being defined by the industry, listed in the Institute of Scientific Information’s Journal Citation Reports) and impact points, with "one impact point equalling one paper published in a journal with an impact factor of 1". The details can be found readily in the text of the study's report in Nature.

The crux, the 250% number we're talking about, is arrived at through the multiple regression discussed earlier. To achieve a competency score comparable to the average male score, and noting that the cohort averaged 40 impact points, a woman would need to achieve an additional 64 impact points. That is, approximately 150% additional impact points. That equates to a few extra papers in high-impact journals or several extra papers in lesser-impact journals, but extra work all the same.

This is not saying that any woman in the study worked 150% as hard as a man, but rather that any woman submitting work to the MRC would *need* to work 150% as hard as the average man submitting to the MRC in order to achieve a comparable competency score from the MRC. The distinction is subtle but material. As to this being the worst case, it is not. The 95% confidence interval for this metric--incremental impact points required to achieve similar competency scores as the average male--is 35-93. The worst case is that a woman would have to achieve an additional 232% productivity as the average man, and the best case is that she would need to achieve only 87.5% additional productivity.

That is the math. Now on to logical fallacies. Science is best when it is a transparent endeavor, but not only that, but when it is joined by all who would make claims based on it. Here Robin has quoted a paper published in a reputable journal, which paper clearly defined methodology and results, and Robin has not misquoted the paper. We could argue the applicability to the American workplace in 2015, but I wager Robin chose to refer to the paper on the basis that clear evidence exists for systematic sexism throughout many societies across time. Consider as anecdotal evidence the origin of the phrase "a rule of thumb". I don't expect this is a very contested notion, though there are always some who do. Which is fine, of course.

Phil you mischaracterize my response in an effort to win the round. To ace a serve, so to say. You've entered a discussion looking either to run someone over, or be run over. But your claim rises either from an ignorance of the methodology and results of the study (which I hopefully cleared up a little above), wherein you state as if a fact that no woman in the study worked 150% harder than a man yet you have no produced any proof that you have access to the data; or from an interest to argue with someone, maybe even specifically a woman, on the internet. The vehement language suggests the latter, but as text neuters tone and I've met many people who seemed bristly and terse online only to find them very pleasant and considerate, I prefer and assume the former. The language, sometimes condescending, is what got my ire. It's unnecessary and doesn't move the discussion at all.

As I said, science is at best transparent and joined by all interested. This is not merely a call to say "nay" and claim false any result offered. Surely any credible criticism of the study was not made from the peanut gallery of Professor Wold's colleagues but by taking the data and attempting to reproduce the results. Or, failing that, to demonstrate which of the methods used was unsatisfactory. Without such demonstrated effort, I feel any criticism of the results noted in the paper linked in this article is hand waving and carries no merit. I didn't enter the discussion to argue from ignorance, to claim something is true because it hadn't been disproved. Rather, I entered the discussion because your criticism of the quoted paper fails to meet these basic tenets of scientific criticism. If I publish a paper in which I claim a magnitude 6 earthquake is 1,000% as powerful as a magnitude 5 earthquake, and someone pipes up to say that, no, it's only 120% as powerful, there is nothing much to consider because that someone has failed to submit a credible claim against the original.

It is to this setup that I responded: your claim, without any apparent substance, that no woman worked 150% as hard as a man. You make this claim by comparing MRC competency scores. This is not the basis for the 250% figure quoted, of course, and these scores by themselves don't represent the entirety of the claim of the paper. There is the additional dimension of how productive female authors need to be to achieve particular competency scores. Thus, the regression, and the claim thereupon.

There's an irony you have stated at least twice without, I guess, intending to: that if you owned a company you would hire woman mostly or only, because they are harder workers. I'd be curious as to why you think this, and wonder--thus the irony--if you might concur that it's likely because such sexism as noted in the paper and Robin's article is alive and kicking. I won't press on that because it's presumptuous and at best a cheap shot, but I thought it was worth sharing.

Interestingly, at least one other team, including one Ulf Sandström, revisited the data later and introduced new bibliometric methods. They confirmed the results, Prof. Wold told me. I haven't found that paper but Prof. Wold did put me in touch with Prof. Sandström so I may be able to track it down. I am told that the MRC board of the day experienced some turnover and since there is much less gender bias (perhaps slightly favoring women now), but the nepotism--also the subject of Wold's paper as well as additional research from Sandström--has not yet subsided. It materially affects the competency scores awarded.

Thanks, Robin, for the post. So many more words have been typed since, but I hope it's been useful or at least interesting. And thanks, Phil, for sticking with it. I definitely think it is incumbent on readers to critically engage articles. Even if there's room for improvement there, I've enjoyed it.

Cheers.
