This isn't to say that my troubles with living are entirely of my own poor design. Or its implementation. Ignoring invocations of "Society!" which we take to be the singular heaving mass of humanity, and considering only those smaller groups of people into which I've been drawn or insinuated myself, there are of course plenty of things which could be improved.

Right now I'm frustrated in a culture ossified into a mixture of heady individuality and a stifling, nearly archetypical bureaucracy. That is, I work for a public US university. More to the point I work in a capacity to increase the amount of bureaucracy, or&mdash;to be charitable&mdash;to refine and improve the existing bureaucracy; it is bureaucracy all the same. I believe this has value and _can_ be done well, but as the whole body of these documents and SOPs have developed organically (again with the charitable), my small team has to work against veteran entitlement, entrenched methodology, and long-standing political fissures. Not to mention that only a small handful of people aren't at least passively, if not actively, opposed to what they think or know our role is.

If I had my shit together&mdash;clearly not the case&mdash;this might be a fertile state of affairs. Large institutions with unkempt bureaucratic vehicles leave lots of room for enterprising folks to spin up skunkworks projects. But "enterprising folks" don't seem afflicted with a ponderous nature, and instead are usually found elbow-deep in the things that spark their curiosity. That is to say, all the struggles I'm having can be rolled into the struggle to _become_ enterprising folk.

That struggle is hard enough in isolation but feels impossible in the face of cloistered subcultures. How to break the ice and develop fruitful working relationships when neither my heart nor theirs is really into it? Humor is hit-or-miss, which I accept is probably on me; I am increasingly convinced I'm that guy who thinks he's funny contrary to available evidence. Earnestness feels fake without knowing much about the people, and finding out things about people is kind of like playing Minesweeper.
