There's a particular archetype of story that seems to hail from antiquity: Armageddon.  The End of Days.  The time when human civilization is razed, though never completely, when human civilization is "brought to its knees."  The causes almost invariably derive from the faults of the human animal: we have sinned, and are smitten from On High; we have played [g,G]od, have perverted Nature in some fashion, and She has returned the favor; or we have warred so violently as to render all the foundations of our civilization to the dust from which we built it.  Self-fulfilling prophecy?  Lord, I hope so.

When I think of the next apocalypse, when I get a little hopeful for it in fact, it's not the Biblical variety.  The earth is not cleansed of all that is ill, is not reset in disposition and potential, is not--in Nadine Mortimer's words--returned to a "new moral beginning."  The earth is compromised, it is left exposed and barren and nigh empty, wild--but not in the sense of being untamed as before man.  Wild perhaps in the sense that, well, it's the end of the world as we know it.

Of course, this is the basic template for most popular Western post-apocalyptic dystopian fiction, from _Alas Babylon_ to _Mad Max_ to _The Matrix_ to almost everything in the zombie genre.  I might as well wish that Earth would become Arrakis, a desert planet with two main features: desolation; and the colossal worms who thrive in it.  On arrakis, one practically prays to the very little water available, welled deep underground--and that is it.

There's a particular detail to the manner of apocalypse to which I'm attracted that hints to the cause of the attraction.  Consider that many Armageddon stories result in a sinless land, reset to nearly holy defaults, ready for the Pure Hearts [tm] to make life and civilization anew, more wisely this time.  I have no interest in such a thing, and this is my chief disappointment with many such fictions.

Just as I was, in those last pages of TLoR some 25 years ago, sad and nostalgic for the time before Man's rise, before the elves left Middle Earth, apparently taking with them much of its magic, before the Ring was destroyed and so ridding Middle Earth of much of its danger, I was despondent when Randy Bragg and company finally found news that the world rolled on, notwithstanding significant changes.

While a shadow grows in the East, every corner turned is dangerous, every choice immediately focused on survival.  When Fort Repose has no interaction with the rest of the world, and has only those resources necessary to maintain a small town, there are no charity balls, there are no weddings or obligatory social functions.  Sauron's evil and desparate isolation, respectively, prune the ugly flourish of mundanity, of inspipidity, from the world.

What I look for from an apocalypse is not a return to a simpler time, but a marching ahead into a permanently simpler time.  There's no use to attending core curriculum classes in The Capital Wasteland.  No need to calibrate and refactor a growing database of attached strings and obligations and 401(k)s and mortgages and car payments and certifications.  One need only survive and make a place for herself, though not necessarily at the exclusion of others.

You see, this apocalypse is the cleanest possible state of things, for humans.  Every apocalypse--real or imagined--which has come before crawls inexorably toward renewal, toward "a better world."  We don't need that; we need fewer of us and fewer institutions and fewer presumptions of authenticity and fewer pilates instructors and fewer tax forms.
