I'm on the third floor, in a small room with two doors.  Neither is secure: one doesn't close, and the other does but only just.  Each leads to a stairway--one in the front half of the house, and the other in the back half.  A single window overlooks the back yard.  It's dark out.  A dog barks, and then another, but that's all I can hear.  It's dark in here, too: electricity's out.

Two floors below, dead fingers scrape against any one or more of the doors into the house.  These doors are stronger, they close and lock completely.  All the first-floor windows are a couple of feet off the ground, their entry requiring the availability of something to climb on and the aptitude to use it.  For a while, I'm safe; but only for a while.

If it were light outside, perhaps I could see dessicated bodies shambling the Rabbit in the driveway, or tripping over the two-by-four garden frames.  Would I see any hint of higher thinking, of organizing or the use of tools?  I imagine not, maybe just to maintain composure.  Thinking assailants would've been upstairs by now; the only thing I've got going for me is that these dead things may not have the cognitive capacity for planning.  If too many of them arrive, though, that probably won't much matter.  And help?  Help's not coming.

It's the end of the world.

--

I don't subscribe to the falderal of the increasingly popular zombie media genre.  I don't join zombie crawls, I don't send zombie-themed greeting cards, and I don't much care for any of the zombie video games I've played.  I do, however, plan on creating evacuation placards for the house, and I've scouted a couple of safe retreats should a comet, the T or rage virus, or a chemical spill spark an eventual zombie apocalypse.

I remember sitting with my mom and her husband-at-the-time in the basement family room of a house we shared with her sister's family, at midnight, watching _Night of the Living Dead_.  This was 1979 or 1980.  I was in second grade, older than most second-graders but still just seven or eight.  I watched the whole thing, as I remember.  I also remember something else: the sound of eating oatmeal.

I didn't follow Romero's work for a long time after that.  Seven-or-eight-year-olds don't really follow anyone's work, per se.  I don't actually recall having seen another zombie movie until maybe six years ago.  I recall being excited for the 2004 _Dawn of the Dead_, which I hadn't known initially was a remake of Romero's second zombie movie.  The only thing I recall that might've hinted to my later fascination with the zombie apocalypse--for surely it _must_ be an apocalypse--was my infatuation with the first _Resident Evil_ game for the PlayStation.  Well, more accurately, my infatuation for the early parts of _Resident Evil_, before encountering the mutated creatures and awful, predictable evil plot.  This would make for a pattern.

--

I'm on the second floor of a bank, looking almost straight up through two floors to the grey sky.  The clouds are moving quickly, and are not only dark with water, but are red with ash.  Automatic fire echoes through the streets, probably from three or four blocks away.  I'm alone.  I sit and drink Tab from a toy canteen.  I have about two hours to make it four blocks south, to the bridge, before the ladder cage is locked from the inside.  I might make it.

I'm glad the city council didn't follow through on removing the Skywalk downtown.  I have to head north into Chiquita Tower, then east into the P&G building, in order to catch the only sewer line that's open all the way to 3rd street.  Once it's dark, though, scabs'll be piling in at 4th and Broadway, and I'll just have to wait here another day.  I can't wait here another day.

I've been careful to avoid confrontation.  The three shots I've taken were from various spots: the ChemEd parking lot; the first-floor bank revolving door; and the SkyWalk.  They know within a couple of blocks where I am, but they also know I'm armed and capable.  There is easier game.

If I can make it to the bridge in time, I'll sleep for a few hours eighty feet above the city, sharing a maintenance room and both cans of green beans with three men, a woman, and her child.  They'll share some Tab, or even a little Sanpeligreno.  Then, tomorrow morning, I'll head north into the city again.  We need rubbing alcohol and gauze.  Help?  Help's not coming.

It's the end of the world.

--

I fondly remember Mel Gibson's least loquacious character, Mad Max.  I saw _Road Warrior_ before _Mad Max_, and while the latter is arguably the better movie, it's the former that sticks with me mostly.  Mad Max is practical, though not without empathy.  He takes care of his dog, even sharing the last can of dog food.  Well, some of it.  The world is parched, and civility is as bountiful as are water and fuel.  That is to say, not so much.

By the time Max meets the Helicopter Man, and unknowningly plays decoy driving a sand-filled gas tanker through the Australian desert, the world's already lost it's softer airs.  We assume that a nuclear apocalypse--and it _must_ be an apocalypse--causes the fall of civilization, though there's very little discussion of radiation.  There's very little discussion of any sort, really.  Mostly, there is surviving.

I saw _Mad Max_ in fifth grade.  I watched Max's world crumble, saw his wife die.  Saw him broken.  He was a cop, Max, and he struck out against some thugs mostly on his own.  In _Road Warrior_, I saw Max the unrestrained cop, unrestrained by a Constitution or by statute or ordinance.  This Max, this cop, does The Right Thing, but partially as a by-product of his need for the staples of life: a car, fuel, and food.

I saw _Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome_--where by "saw" I mean "fetishized," catching it on my grandma's cable at least twenty times--but in retrospect it was almost too civilized.  There was quite a bit more conversation, quite a bit more order of one flavor or another.  This Max talks and cares too much.  It's almost the end of the apocalypse.

I would follow the genre over the next years, but with waning interest.  Perhaps subsequent offerings paled; perhaps the apocalypse was a tired device.  In 1999, Fallout was released.  I barely recall playing it or watching someone else, for a short time.  It didn't stick.

--

I watched the 2004 'Dead, riveted and excited.  I've watched it several times since.  I watched the DVD extras: Andy's video journal; and the newscast.  Neither is particularly well-crafted, but I still dig the newscast because it helps me imagine the world really has gone to shit.  After seeing this, I found, ordered, and watched the original _Dawn of the Dead_, _Day of the Dead_.  Each has attractive elements, but I don't have nostalgia to mask the incredibly poor acting and dialog, and plotting in general.  _Land of the Dead_ began well enough, and I've watched it a few times as well, but the technology and crippled moralizing don't sit well with me.  _Diary of the Dead_ was a nice methodological departure for Romero, however much it shares features of his other stuff.  I finished but abhor _Survival of the Dead_.  The remake of _Night of the Living Dead_ worked nicely, though I've only seen it one or two times.  The 2007 remake of _Day of the Dead_ is incredibly bad, but I still managed to finish it.

The first movie we saw together in the theater was _Resident Evil: Apocalypse_.  She was, as far as I know, a zombie virgin, and saw much of the movie through Chick Vision.  It is ultimately prosaic, capturing many of the lazy plot elements of the end of the first game--and, for that matter, the end of Resident Evil 4, which is the only other RE game I've played.  I later caught her up on the first one, which I think is underrated; and then we saw the third.  We now own all three, and we're keeping them.  _Afterlife_ is sure to join our collection, even if it's abominable (odds for this being higher given it was released in 3D).

Danny Boyle's _28 Days Later_ grabbed me very differently.  It's not much of a morality play.  It is, though, stark, principally in the first half, and Danny takes his time showing us what the newly departed human civilization might feel, might sound, like.  It's quiet, it's somber, it's dangerous.  The Boyle-produced sequel, _28 Weeks Later_, is not nearly so quiet, and takes a couple of liberties with logic and physics, but I own it and am keeping it.

Two years ago my wife bought me some lesser-known horror, mostly zombie, movies.  _Zombi 2_ gave us some laughs, as it's almost on-purpose a compendium of every wrong way to make a horror movie.  Similarly for _The Zombie Next Door_.  She hasn't seen _Dead Alive_, and just as well; Peter Jackson made an egregiously disgusting movie with no eye for the survival angle that characterizes most of the rest of the genre.

--

I never really inquired of myself why such an interest in these things.  Various other apparently similar genre tropes, e.g., vampires and westerns, never really found much place in my library.  I entertain science fiction for what I think are different specific reasons which are nevertheless intimately connected to my attraction to zombies and the Western apocalypse.  More on that later, I suspect; this is not that.

I have been historically fond of my own take on reality, often buoyant with pride at some locally novel take on epistemology or morality or even common sense.  My guess is that this derives not only from my potentially crippling high self-esteem (self-deprecatory remarks notwithstanding--indeed, their caustic insightfulness and humor only begs my head to expand), but from a pathological underdevelopment of social tools and a feel for the social world around me.  Where I thought highly of my brain since early days, as a teen I forged this into the myth of genius, and rode that as far as my poor work ethic would take me.  To this day I am loath to say I can't develop a skill, or that I am wholly bad at anything, though I'm becoming more comfortable with this per necessity.

In 1997, I met the woman who I would marry first, joining a family with three children, and soon contributed a fourth.  It's hard to separate the faults of memory from reality, but I feel that seven or so years of that life were generally amenable to and developed nicely from application of my worldview and ethical code.  This is not to say that they were seven years of requited dreams; should be obvious that something brought things to an end.  At least I feel I was a good father, though the luster of that opinion dims at least linearly, possibly more aggressively, over time.

In all the years before 2004, I don't think I faced a serious challenge to my worldview, including my tightly held system of ethics and morality.  Generally, I could pronounce my conclusion on a matter as right, almost as if it were self-evidently so, without much opposition from any potentional contradictory reality.  In 2004, though, as I decided that I no longer wanted to be married to my wife, and subsequently that divorce and then separation from my children's home were the right things to do, I began to face conflicts which sometimes slowly but most-often brutally tore at my convictions.

In 2004, I not only left a house and a wife, I began another relationship.  The timing appears scandalous, and there was plenty of rumor and accusation, but the scandal was--as I expect most are--entirely contrived.  I'm sure I've committed the same melodrama toward other people--family, friends, celebrities, whomever--so I know how satisfying that drama can be.  Like salty, fatty food.  But I didn't care then nor do I now about these rumors; I felt no controversy there.

One source of actual controversy is my fatherhood.  Three of my four children at that time were only legally mine due to marriage.  I still cringe about the terminology here, i.e., "step-father," because it suggests a causal schizm in which I don't believe: I am no more or less a father, I no more or less invest in that relationship with those children, based on biology or legal code.  But this still affects the domain of my decision.  Perhaps I shouldn't have let it affect it so much.

The controversy was not solely this semiotic issue, but the fact that the my new partner didn't share my view.  She still doesn't.  Though she has respected it there have nevertheless been clashes on the point, or on derivatives of the point, and I still don't feel it's resolved.  In 2004, we were learing about one another, learning about our children (by any definition), learning each other's assets and faults, and each finding our own.

In October of 2004, Danielle and I conceived a child together, Elizabeth.  This represented a whole ensemble cast of issues, from, again, apparent scandal, to actual health considerations beyond those of a common pregnancy.  Danielle has a blood disorder that requires multiple injections daily while pregnant.  This made pregnancy even more onerous than it already would've been otherwise, but in the 18th week we found more cause to worry.

During one routine ultrasound, the tech saw something that would eventually be confirmed to be a problem with Ella's heart.  A week or so later, specialists informed us that Ella had a very serious heart disformity, Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome, the correction of which would require three heart surgeries in her first five years.  Further, Ella's diagnosis included Turner's Syndrome, a chromosomal disease that [insert information on this].  Danielle and I needed to make a decision, *the* decision.  I had never faced anything so dire, so confounding.

We made our choice, and worked with Ella for her three hardfought months.  As much as we knew, as much as we learned, and as much as was spoon-fed to us, we didn't know enough.  We didn't know that the three operations would be, as they say, _palliative_ and not _corrective_.  We didn't know that Ella would still need a heart transplant sometime between her 10th and 25th birthdays.  We didn't know the feeling of looking at one's newborn with chest splayed open, a layer of clear plastic bandage covering the incision the doctor's couldn't close because her body was so swollen.  We didn't know the challenge of feeding a child through a nasogastric tube, and of managing the oxygen supply she needed, and of keeping her canula positioned correctly, and of the irritation the adhesive pads would cause her skin.


--------------------------

This outcropping hides me well enough, for now; but when the sun's behind me I'll be more exposed. I have a kitchen knife and the barrel of a small hunting rifle, two metal bottles of pond water, and scraps of salamander and smashed berries. I can't wait them out, but I also can't afford to circumnavigate the crossroads enough to avoid them. I'm left, then, to wait for darkness and attempt some guerrila tactics.

Why I continue I can't say. There are no towns ahead, and if there were, I'd be better served avoiding them anyway. There are no oases ahead, either, or at least I can't count on any. But by virtue of curiosity if nothing else, I keep going, on the vague--not "hope" even, but just only that curiosity--that there's something worth seeing, worth walking to. I'm no fool; I've heard of strongholds of civilization in every direction, of every level of establishment and citizenship, and I've got two things to say about them.

First, while I can see the draw of this mythology, of this alternate history, wherein we've reset the failing human world and begun building it from cleaner principles, having learned, we think, from our mistakes, I don't believe this is anything more than denial of the brutality of any encampment at best, and hysteria and insanity at worst.

Second, more importantly, the last thing I want is to feed the human machine an economy of scale. Taken on the order of the individual, the human being is a muddled conflagration of survival instinct and self-deception through potent self-aggrandizement. But gather ten or a hundred of these things, and ideologies achieve a higher density which allows for better, and shared, illusions of rationality. Gather thousands or more, and there is no means to control the emergent vileness short of the clan's own self-destruction. If we've learned anything, we've learned this.

Any attempt to revive or renew or create anew a human civilization is flawed from first principles. One doesn't tame the viper; one merely trains the viper to capitulate in an illusion of tameness in order to best survive. Once this is no longer an effective tactic to that strategy, the viper will strike and move on.

But I have a sickness, and maybe this is where axiomatic incompleteness strikes most severely: knowing that I can't know everything feeds my wonderment, my dangerous curiosity, in finding--what?--something which defies what I know is sanity. In finding a truly new world built from the same earthly materials but from wholly new philosophies. My only defense against this is to avoid others, avoid even unintentional collaboration with others, and to keep moving so as not to attach sentimentality to any one place. I can have no home, or else I am lost.


--------------------------

When I navigate the wasteland of _Fallout_, or watch as present-day Everypersons navigate the falling blocks of our civilization, falling either by our own devices (e.g., nuclear war), or by some quas-inatural circumstance (e.g., the dead rising), I think I'm sorting the stimulus into two different, non-exclusive taxonomies: one of visceral pleasure; and one of experimentation on apocalyptic ideas. This sounds like something that takes a bit of effort, but I enjoy it enough that I can't help but do it, I guess. I can effectively overlook the often poor acting and direction on both sorting activities. I can best explain this by assuming that while I deconstruct the stimulus so I can reform it around my own metaphoric infrastructure, I can discard these trivial things in the way one discards the shrink-wrap of a new purchase. Or, by another analogy, perhaps it's not unlike the acid etching of circuit boards, during the final steps of which the acid bath removes the exposed material of the substrate to reveal the circuit path beneath.

Why, though? This will certainly require expansion, but to first approximation, it's not unlike the search for more and more information about the big bang, and further, of a Theory of Everything. In these last seven years, I've become more and more motivated to figure out what, if anything, we've built our ethical and moral worlds upon, to understand if there is any elemental Right, to devise, essentially, the calculus by which I can consistently make appropriate decisions.

I cringe to write that without more nuance, but it's kind of a recursive problem, right? I'm excavating the nuance as I'm trying to use it, or trying to use it in service of its own excavation. And of course it's all understandably confused and muddled because of that limited access. Can I use a thing to uncover, prove, or otherwise deduce any quality of the thing, or of its existence at all?

Where I apply this to extant evidence of intelligence through watching people, through watching our representations of people (caricatures and stylized doppelgangers, mostly), and through sifting these things and looking for patterns, I have also tried to learn about the very machine with which intelligence operates (so far as we know--yet more recursion): the brain. Not only or necessarily the human brain, but rather at once the brain in all its implementations, and the "brain" as a conceptual engine of information processing. The first part of that certainly requires little explanation: where the human brain is a large-enough domain to serve for many lifetimes-worth of study, even this seems myopic in light of all the other brains that exist and their similarities and differences.

The second part, though, is the kicker, I think. I said once, not well, and I shall not say it well here, paraphrased or otherwise, that we might find apparent evidence of design in physical processes and structures not because therefore there is a Creator, but rather because we identify with this phenomenon by its similarity to our own facility for design, and further because it is our facility for design which is derived from this natural phenomenon. That sounds not unlike I'm saying we derive our capacity for design from the universe's, and so it's not so far from that to say that "the universe" is "God" and so that we were created in His image. In the acid bath, surely not all of this connection or connotation is destroyed; there seems some kernel of at least rationality if not truth to this. However, that acid bath would likely remove much of our semiotic/semantic cruft and show that the notion of "God" and our having been made in His image is sophistry in the service of primitive first approximations. That's not "bad," per se; but there's no reason I can see to stop there and forever after live thereby.

What I hoped to get through there, at least, was the notion that intelligence need not require a brain anymore than design need not require consciousness as we define it. In that sense, the human brain is a mere instance of the terrestrial brain class, but more than that, the terrestrial brain class--the very idea of a "brain" as a cognition tool--is a mere instance of the class of tools of cognition. To be outlandish about it, can we say we know enough about intelligence, and about thinking, and about the requirements for them, to say that the complexity of our sun's structure can't possibly include the capacity for intelligence? Can the sun think? Does it have conscious behavior, even? How can we say no, no matter how alien this is to our proto-understanding of intelligence?

Do I think the sun is a conscious agent? I can't say, even though the system I'm comfortable using to make sense of the world suggests it's unlikely. And I think we have many more immediate concerns to make sense of long before the answer is even all that relevant. But the *question* is relevant in that we should poke not only at our conceptions, but the tools of our conceptions, and the conceptions of those tools, etc., so far as we can.

This doesn't make small talk, or political discussions, or raising children, or writing any easier, you can be sure. Every day is laborious, filled with a bewildering assortment of tasks purportedly in support of one's true aim or aims, which tasks can be so numerous as to become one's only aim. Waking, showering, brushing teeth, eating, defecating, maintaining the necessary collegial relationships with people, maintaining one's health so as to make all the decision-making and defecating and hygiene and relationships and general function as easy as possible. I don't think there's such a thing as a clean mind or a perfectly well-adjusted life or lifestyle, but it seems reasonable that arguments with family over dinner or chores, disagreements at work on minutiae and larger concerns alike, and impoverished oxygen flow to the brain, for instance, only obstruct thinking and making sense of things. This is recursive, too, though; you can't learn from people as iterations of the human, as iterations of animals, as iterations of what we consider life, while keeping them completely outside your influence, and you outside theirs. In other words, you'll be hard-pressed to succeed as a chef without chopping onions or breaking eggs.

But the chef-in-training, or even the cooking enthusiast, may want to work in a kitchen that's organized, where ingredients are available but stored in an organized fashion, where working space is ample and uncluttered, and where measurement is easy by virtue of availability of proper tools. That is, the cooking enthusiast will find working with an electric skillet in a kitchenette with a hodgepodge of Tupperware and plastic cereal bowls challenging, if not entirely damning of their efforts. Physicists represent horses as point-masses, and use the infinite square well to begin understanding how atomic electrons behave. For me, the burgeoning intelligence/ethical/morality/whatever reverse-engineer, the cleanest kitchen follows the apocalypse.

A primary benefit of the post-apocalyptic scenario is a reduction in the complexity of civilization, of the patterns of human interaction. When a human enclave is brought to focus more on immediate survival than on retirement plans and tax deductions, there are fewer levels of obfuscatory interaction. A possible unstated premise is that upon deducing some truth of more immediate concerns (food, shelter, safety, simple trade), the derivatives (a nice home, a stylish car, movies, a bedroom suit) are systematically understandable from those simpler immediate concerns. That presupposes that the latter are truly derivative, but I can take that for now.

Another benefit, perhaps not so readily apparent, of the post-apocalyptic world in its conventional Western (as in Occidental) sense, is the physical evidence of the ruination of prior prosperity and its history, however incomplete. I'll be testing this hypothesis a little, paying more attention to the Western (as in cowboys) genre which shares the sparsity and unruliness of the post-apocalyptic genre, but my hunch is that they don't show the same range of things. The crumbling spires of the modern world, the remnant weapons and technology, and the budding mythologies built on caricatures of history, all work to provide for sophisticated ideas and considerations and reflection. The physicist of the cowboy era is still convinced in the aether, the chemist may still think alchemy possible, the psychologist is prescribing leeches and herion.

This is not to fall into the trap of thinking that we understand a sizable-enough proportion of things in the current, modern, Western world as to reasonably claim these problems are solved. However, I can't escape the fact that right now we collectively know more than we have ever of this things, and as interesting as extrapolation can be for science fiction, it would become only yet another layer of obfuscatory material.

In the post-apocalyptic world, Hofstadter has written GEB, and Goedel has proven his Incompleteness Theorem, and while we can't reduce the brain to even an ungainly set of equations, let alone to an elegant mathematical model, we seem reasonably close to pinning behavior and thinking and the variety of these things on purely physical, chemical processes.

What I am not particularly interested in, though, is the formation of towns into states into nations into the whole damn thing all over again. I don't want Alcatraz as the repository of the history of man's rise and fall, and less do I want Alcatraz as the center of the development of a new civilization. My reason? That's a path to the same confused chaos I've removed in dropping the bombs or unleashing the living dead, so what's the point? No, I want a wild, brutal countryside and strongholds only so well-established as to provide time for rumination. Maybe that's just a hammock high up in a tree, or (ugh) a cave, or even a small encampment surrounded by some natural or artificial protection. But hopefully it's not a town, or a city even if only sparsely inhabited.

When I sit on the bus or on the commode or at the dinner table or in the car or on the couch or at my desk or on a bench and look around and imagine the human world has crumbled, I don't want Nadine Gordimer's "new moral beginning," since the word "beginning" implies that we'll start fresh and rebuild. No, I want that simple landscape to maintain as a simple landscape, forever more.

-------------------------------------------

I go through the motions of social existence for a variety if reasons, but rarely without some conflict. One reason, the reason I'll mention first so as not to appear--what, "pathological"?--is that I genuinely want to interact socially. In that phase, I'm looking for interaction with people, I want to share something I find important and want then to share similarly. There are days when I honestly feel overcome with a sentimentality for that bonding.

Another reason for my socializing is mere social pressure. I want to do things in this world, at least occasionally, and things go much more smoothly if people work with me rather than against me. This is a grey area for me, a large one; when my interest is selfish and not earnest, all interaction becomes calculated, and then I'm trying to solve the fourth-order PDEs required to understand when to smile, when to raise and eyebrow or lilt my voice. It's usually tiring, and with the popularity and apparent success of assholes, I'm growing skeptical of the utility of this path.

Another reason for maintaining relationships effectively reduces to Pascal's wager, substituting whatever the human social experience is for the existence of God. In this methodology, I mix the earnest and pathological foci. I may not ingeniously care about, for instance, whether someone goes to an extra-curricular activity, or sending holiday or thank-you cards. However, my wager is that, notwithstanding my genuine feelings, I'm not certain the human world will always exist as this torturous cavalcade of ignorance and servitude to banality, and so I better play along just in case.

I can't say for sure when I'm in any given mood, nor that there isn't significantly simultaneity of them. And I'm sure a bit more pondering will uncover a finer structure here. But I do know that I variously find myself compelled to reach out to people, and also to clam up more tightly.

A common example is the predicament my often late-night epiphanies put me in. I'll decide to reach out to someone in a it of sentimentality, say by sending an email asking if we can get together. The next morning, considering what I started in motion the previous night, I get anxious or melancholy, uncomfortable with the commitment to socialize.

Do I follow through and take a chance at getting to know someone, even forming a friendship, risking discomfort or vulnerability or awkwardness? Do I concoct a reason to bail?

These aren't common questions, because I'm well-trained against falling for the whole "human touch" thing. But this is a context within which an absent or inconsistent moral or ethical code combined with a lacking ingenious motivation combine to make for an emotional and logical chaos. And that's where a need for a systematic decision-making toolset arises.


-----------------------

As much as I try to consider the brain, or essentially, whichever organ or organs which collaborate to bring about intellect, as a computational device, call it Turing complete if you'd like (and I have and will, though it's probably at best mildly inappropriate and a directionally effective but glaringly inept approximation), do I in this consideration cut away whatever it is that "makes me human," and so restrict the domain of my investigation too narrowly? Can I hope to understand what it is to be an intelligent agent, and more pointedly, how to make rational decisions as an intelligent agent, without understanding the context within which decisions will be made, including the substrate that is the human being?

There is a popular concept that the "mind" emerges from neurons, from the complexity of they interrelations. I don't recall what the various philosophical terms are describing hypotheses for what a "mind" is and where, if anywhere, it resides, but just as in that conversation the answer is not so straightforward, maybe the human thinking creature is not so, either.

That is, a popular concept finds the mind as a folk myth describing the observed behavior of the brain. Some disagree, and there is a significant body of inspection of the issue. It seems that someone genuinely interested in the topic should consider many ideas, popular or not, aesthetically or politically pleasing or not.

I have approached the idea of decision-making as if the brain were merely a complex, wet computer, trying, effectively, to abstract the "thinking" from the "human." Kind of removing emotion by defining it away, turning our daily, practical, popular understanding of emotion into a folk approximation of a more heuristic, more algorithmic process. In the process, I have as much as tried to define away the fabled "human" we collectively seem so attracted to, so fond of demonizing, so fond of eulogizing, so fond of glorifying and appealing to as the epitome of the intellectual phenomenon in nature.

I'm still attached to these ideas, to these directions of thought, and I do think that the brain is more or less a complex, wet computer. But am I exerting my mind against a circular logic, and in so doing growing to understand less of what it takes for humans to make decisions, let alone understand what makes those decisions appropriate or "right"?

------------

- Talent
One class of decision that we're constantly focused on, from childhood even, is, essentially, what kind of person to be. What will we do with our lives? What will our profession be, assuming we aspire to a single such thing? Will we have kids? Will we attend university, or even just generally follow a scholastic path; or will we focus more on vocational or skilled labor? What, if anything, do we want our final output to be? How should we be remembered, or equivalently for these purposes, hhow will our biography read?

At least in the United States, and I would wager in much of what we have called "Western civilization," whole industries have arisen to help us answer these questions. Without much owrk, we can distill a singlular core to most such solutions: "be yourself." Follow your natural proclivities, your "passions," your heart. Do what you want, what you feel inclined to do, what you have, perhaps, a talent for. Do what you love and you'll never be broke, or something like that.

Taking our idea above, about the brain being a complex, wet computer, and assuming our folk biopsychology holds mostly accurate, that the mind and our emotions and talents are facets of that brain, we have but to invoke the brain itself to understand our "talent." I offer that we can understand talent by understanding how the brain metabolizes information.

Structure. Our brain adapts its structure as we learn, to *encode* that learning physically. Talent, for all its spiritual or mystical clothing, would seem similarly to be an encoding of the brain. Perhaps the brain is encoded in such a way that some sorts of future codes are more easily stored than others, or in other words, such that we can learn some things more easily than others. Then there is nothing fundamentally different about talent fversus learned skill, with regards to the brain, and therefore the mind. We discern a difference in the vehicle by which this encoding took place: conscious effort for learning; and probabilistic phenotypical happenstance for talent.

Why, then, would we so value talent over learned skill? Isn't talent, in a sense, *less* ours than we are its? If I do math because I'm naturally inclined to do well in math, then I'm not so much making a choice as I am operating within whatever genetic program determined my talents in the first place. Independent of just how much this choice affects anyone beyond ourselves (hunch: not so muchc), why should we feel so comfortable letting how we were born decide what to do with our lives? Why should I not put significant effort into something I have no natural affinity for?

Maybe it's the time thing: we have a finite resource in time, don't want to waste it taking on subject matter for which we are decidedly not well-suited for? Assume that leanred skills and talent are identical in form. It may take one person a weekend to learn something, if they have a talent for it; it may take another person, not so affine to the topic, weeks, or months. There's certainly something to be said for being able to create quickly toward developing and refining the skill, and moving on through this skill to another of similar but more advanced pedigree. But other than to control how many things a body can work on in his/her lifetime, what is the purpose of this efficiency? 

------------

Note the wisdom of those who say, of someone who seems plainly in need of advice, "He's not ready to hear what you've got to say." Or Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio's retort in _The Abyss_, "You've got to see with better eyes with that."

Our metaphor structures determine to a llarge extent what we're prepared to notice, understand, and, probably, what we care about.

You want to reach out to someone, tell them you've been there, you know what's going on with them. But two things there: because of your metaphor structure, you probably don't know, though you may have a good approximation; and they can't hear you over the way on which your appeal is broken down and reconstituted into their system, into something that probably disproportionately accentuates your presumption. More, you know what you know boy because you downloaded your knowledge from someone, but because you assembled a finely tuned armature of metaphors and aesthetics onto which you made your experiences. You can no more hope for high fidelity of your experience transferred to them than you can hope that reading about math will make you understand it. There is the doing, the making.

------

Confuse light with traffic