I'm on the third floor, in a small room with two doors.  Neither is secure: one doesn't close, and the other does but only just.  Each leads to a stairway--one in the front half of the house, and the other in the back half.  A single window overlooks the back yard.  It's dark out.  A dog barks, and then another, but that's all I can hear.  It's dark in here, too: electricity's out.

Two floors below, dead fingers scrape against any one or more of the doors into the house.  These doors are stronger, they close and lock completely.  All the first-floor windows are a couple of feet off the ground, their entry requiring the availability of something to climb on and the aptitude to use it.  For a while, I'm safe; but only for a while.

If it were light outside, perhaps I could see dessicated bodies shambling the Rabbit in the driveway, or tripping over the two-by-four garden frames.  Would I see any hint of higher thinking, of organizing or the use of tools?  I imagine not, maybe just to maintain composure.  Thinking assailants would've been upstairs by now; the only thing I've got going for me is that these dead things may not have the cognitive capacity for planning.  If too many of them arrive, though, that probably won't much matter.  And help?  Help's not coming.

It's the end of the world.

--

I don't subscribe to the falderal of the increasingly popular zombie media genre.  I don't join zombie crawls, I don't send zombie-themed greeting cards, and I don't much care for any of the zombie video games I've played.  I do, however, plan on creating evacuation placards for the house, and I've scouted a couple of safe retreats should a comet, the T or rage virus, or a chemical spill spark an eventual zombie apocalypse.

I remember sitting with my mom and her husband-at-the-time in the basement family room of a house we shared with her sister's family, at midnight, watching _Night of the Living Dead_.  This was 1979 or 1980.  I was in second grade, older than most second-graders but still just seven or eight.  I watched the whole thing, as I remember.  I also remember something else: the sound of eating oatmeal.

I didn't follow Romero's work for a long time after that.  Seven-or-eight-year-olds don't really follow anyone's work, per se.  I don't actually recall having seen another zombie movie until maybe six years ago.  I recall being excited for the 2004 _Dawn of the Dead_, which I hadn't known initially was a remake of Romero's second zombie movie.  The only thing I recall that might've hinted to my later fascination with the zombie apocalypse--for surely it _must_ be an apocalypse--was my infatuation with the first _Resident Evil_ game for the PlayStation.  Well, more accurately, my infatuation for the early parts of _Resident Evil_, before encountering the mutated creatures and awful, predictable evil plot.  This would make for a pattern.

--

I'm on the second floor of a bank, looking almost straight up through two floors to the grey sky.  The clouds are moving quickly, and are not only dark with water, but are red with ash.  Automatic fire echoes through the streets, probably from three or four blocks away.  I'm alone.  I sit and drink Tab from a toy canteen.  I have about two hours to make it four blocks south, to the bridge, before the ladder cage is locked from the inside.  I might make it.

I'm glad the city council didn't follow through on removing the Skywalk downtown.  I have to head north into Chiquita Tower, then east into the P&G building, in order to catch the only sewer line that's open all the way to 3rd street.  Once it's dark, though, scabs'll be piling in at 4th and Broadway, and I'll just have to wait here another day.  I can't wait here another day.

I've been careful to avoid confrontation.  The three shots I've taken were from various spots: the ChemEd parking lot; the first-floor bank revolving door; and the SkyWalk.  They know within a couple of blocks where I am, but they also know I'm armed and capable.  There is easier game.

If I can make it to the bridge in time, I'll sleep for a few hours eighty feet above the city, sharing a maintenance room and both cans of green beans with three men, a woman, and her child.  They'll share some Tab, or even a little Sanpeligreno.  Then, tomorrow morning, I'll head north into the city again.  We need rubbing alcohol and gauze.  Help?  Help's not coming.

It's the end of the world.

--

I fondly remember Mel Gibson's least loquacious character, Mad Max.  I saw _Road Warrior_ before _Mad Max_, and while the latter is arguably the better movie, it's the former that sticks with me mostly.  Mad Max is practical, though not without empathy.  He takes care of his dog, even sharing the last can of dog food.  Well, some of it.  The world is parched, and civility is as bountiful as are water and fuel.  That is to say, not so much.

By the time Max meets the Helicopter Man, and unknowningly plays decoy driving a sand-filled gas tanker through the Australian desert, the world's already lost it's softer airs.  We assume that a nuclear apocalypse--and it _must_ be an apocalypse--causes the fall of civilization, though there's very little discussion of radiation.  There's very little discussion of any sort, really.  Mostly, there is surviving.

I saw _Mad Max_ in fifth grade.  I watched Max's world crumble, saw his wife die.  Saw him broken.  He was a cop, Max, and he struck out against some thugs mostly on his own.  In _Road Warrior_, I saw Max the unrestrained cop, unrestrained by a Constitution or by statute or ordinance.  This Max, this cop, does The Right Thing, but partially as a by-product of his need for the staples of life: a car, fuel, and food.

I saw _Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome_--where by "saw" I mean "fetishized," catching it on my grandma's cable at least twenty times--but in retrospect it was almost too civilized.  There was quite a bit more conversation, quite a bit more order of one flavor or another.  This Max talks and cares too much.  It's almost the end of the apocalypse.

I would follow the genre over the next years, but with waning interest.  Perhaps subsequent offerings paled; perhaps the apocalypse was a tired device.  In 1999, Fallout was released.  I barely recall playing it or watching someone else, for a short time.  It didn't stick.

--

I watched the 2004 'Dead, riveted and excited.  I've watched it several times since.  I watched the DVD extras: Andy's video journal; and the newscast.  Neither is particularly well-crafted, but I still dig the newscast because it helps me imagine the world really has gone to shit.  After seeing this, I found, ordered, and watched the original _Dawn of the Dead_, _Day of the Dead_.  Each has attractive elements, but I don't have nostalgia to mask the incredibly poor acting and dialog, and plotting in general.  _Land of the Dead_ began well enough, and I've watched it a few times as well, but the technology and crippled moralizing don't sit well with me.  _Diary of the Dead_ was a nice methodological departure for Romero, however much it shares features of his other stuff.  I finished but abhor _Survival of the Dead_.  The remake of _Night of the Living Dead_ worked nicely, though I've only seen it one or two times.  The 2007 remake of _Day of the Dead_ is incredibly bad, but I still managed to finish it.

The first movie we saw together in the theater was _Resident Evil: Apocalypse_.  She was, as far as I know, a zombie virgin, and saw much of the movie through Chick Vision.  It is ultimately prosaic, capturing many of the lazy plot elements of the end of the first game--and, for that matter, the end of Resident Evil 4, which is the only other RE game I've played.  I later caught her up on the first one, which I think is underrated; and then we saw the third.  We now own all three, and we're keeping them.  _Afterlife_ is sure to join our collection, even if it's abominable (odds for this being higher given it was released in 3D).

Danny Boyle's _28 Days Later_ grabbed me very differently.  It's not much of a morality play.  It is, though, stark, principally in the first half, and Danny takes his time showing us what the newly departed human civilization might feel, might sound, like.  It's quiet, it's somber, it's dangerous.  The Boyle-produced sequel, _28 Weeks Later_, is not nearly so quiet, and takes a couple of liberties with logic and physics, but I own it and am keeping it.

Two years ago my wife bought me some lesser-known horror, mostly zombie, movies.  _Zombi 2_ gave us some laughs, as it's almost on-purpose a compendium of every wrong way to make a horror movie.  Similarly for _The Zombie Next Door_.  She hasn't seen _Dead Alive_, and just as well; Peter Jackson made an egregiously disgusting movie with no eye for the survival angle that characterizes most of the rest of the genre.

--

I never really inquired of myself why such an interest in these things.  Various other apparently similar genre tropes, e.g., vampires and westerns, never really found much place in my library.  I entertain science fiction for what I think are different specific reasons which are nevertheless intimately connected to my attraction to zombies and the Western apocalypse.  More on that later, I suspect; this is not that.

I have been historically fond of my own take on reality, often buoyant with pride at some locally novel take on epistemology or morality or even common sense.  My guess is that this derives not only from my potentially crippling high self-esteem (self-deprecatory remarks notwithstanding--indeed, their caustic insightfulness and humor only begs my head to expand), but from a pathological underdevelopment of social tools and a feel for the social world around me.  Where I thought highly of my brain since early days, as a teen I forged this into the myth of genius, and rode that as far as my poor work ethic would take me.  To this day I am loath to say I can't develop a skill, or that I am wholly bad at anything, though I'm becoming more comfortable with this per necessity.

In 1997, I met the woman who I would marry first, joining a family with three children, and soon contributed a fourth.  It's hard to separate the faults of memory from reality, but I feel that seven or so years of that life were generally amenable to and developed nicely from application of my worldview and ethical code.  This is not to say that they were seven years of requited dreams; should be obvious that something brought things to an end.  At least I feel I was a good father, though the luster of that opinion dims at least linearly, possibly more aggressively, over time.

In all the years before 2004, I don't think I faced a serious challenge to my worldview, including my tightly held system of ethics and morality.  Generally, I could pronounce my conclusion on a matter as right, almost as if it were self-evidently so, without much opposition from any potentional contradictory reality.  In 2004, though, as I decided that I no longer wanted to be married to my wife, and subsequently that divorce and then separation from my children's home were the right things to do, I began to face conflicts which sometimes slowly but most-often brutally tore at my convictions.

In 2004, I not only left a house and a wife, I began another relationship.  The timing appears scandalous, and there was plenty of rumor and accusation, but the scandal was--as I expect most are--entirely contrived.  I'm sure I've committed the same melodrama toward other people--family, friends, celebrities, whomever--so I know how satisfying that drama can be.  Like salty, fatty food.  But I didn't care then nor do I now about these rumors; I felt no controversy there.

One source of actual controversy is my fatherhood.  Three of my four children at that time were only legally mine due to marriage.  I still cringe about the terminology here, i.e., "step-father," because it suggests a causal schizm in which I don't believe: I am no more or less a father, I no more or less invest in that relationship with those children, based on biology or legal code.  But this still affects the domain of my decision.  Perhaps I shouldn't have let it affect it so much.

The controversy was not solely this semiotic issue, but the fact that the my new partner didn't share my view.  She still doesn't.  Though she has respected it there have nevertheless been clashes on the point, or on derivatives of the point, and I still don't feel it's resolved.  In 2004, we were learing about one another, learning about our children (by any definition), learning each other's assets and faults, and each finding our own.

In October of 2004, Danielle and I conceived a child together, Elizabeth.  This represented a whole ensemble cast of issues, from, again, apparent scandal, to actual health considerations beyond those of a common pregnancy.  Danielle has a blood disorder that requires multiple injections daily while pregnant.  This made pregnancy even more onerous than it already would've been otherwise, but in the 18th week we found more cause to worry.

During one routine ultrasound, the tech saw something that would eventually be confirmed to be a problem with Ella's heart.  A week or so later, specialists informed us that Ella had a very serious heart disformity, Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome, the correction of which would require three heart surgeries in her first five years.  Further, Ella's diagnosis included Turner's Syndrome, a chromosomal disease that [insert information on this].  Danielle and I needed to make a decision, *the* decision.  I had never faced anything so dire, so confounding.

We made our choice, and worked with Ella for her three hardfought months.  As much as we knew, as much as we learned, and as much as was spoon-fed to us, we didn't know enough.  We didn't know that the three operations would be, as they say, _palliative_ and not _corrective_.  We didn't know that Ella would still need a heart transplant sometime between her 10th and 25th birthdays. 
